NMS-14613  Quick Start: Login and create a user (#5170)
OpenNMS/opennms: docs/modules/operation/pages/deep-dive/user-management/user-config.adoc

Ideally, each user account corresponds to a person, to help track who performs tasks in your {page-component-title} system.
Assigning different <<deep-dive/user-management/security-roles.adoc#ga-role-user-management-roles, security roles>> to each user helps restrict what tasks the user can perform.

In addition to local users, you can configure external authentication services including link:https://opennms.discourse.group/t/spring-security-and-ldap/1425[LDAP/LDAPS], link:https://opennms.discourse.group/t/spring-security-and-radius/1424[RADIUS], and link:https://opennms.discourse.group/t/single-sign-on-sso-using-spring-security-and-kerberos/[Single Sign On (SSO]).
Configuration specifics for these services are outside the scope of this documentation.

WARNING: Do not delete the default `admin` and `rtc` users.
         The `rtc` user is used for the communication of the Real-Time Console on the start page to calculate the node and service availability.

[[ga-user-create]]
== Create a user

. Log in as a user with administrative permissions.

> . Click the gear icon in the top right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the gear icon at the top-right of the screen.
```

> . Choose menu:Configure OpenNMS [Configure Users, Groups and On-Call roles > Configure Users].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Choose menu:Configure OpenNMS [Configure Users, Groups and On-Call Roles > Configure Users].
```

> . Choose menu:Configure OpenNMS [Configure Users, Groups and On-Call roles > Configure Users].

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Choose menu:Configure OpenNMS[Configure Users, Groups and On-Call roles > Configure Users].
```

> . Click *Add new user* and specify a user ID, password, password confirmation and click *OK*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Add new user* and specify a user ID and password, confirm the password, and click *OK*.
```

+

> WARNING: Note that you cannot use angle brackets (<>), single (') and double quotation marks ("), and the ampersand symbol (&) in the user ID.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
WARNING: You cannot use angle brackets (<>), single (') and double quotation marks ("), or the ampersand symbol (&) in a user ID.
```

Author: For some reason this is in italics, so I'll check locally.

> . (Optional) add user information in the appropriate fields.
> . (Optional) assign <<deep-dive/user-management/security-roles.adoc#ga-role-user-management-roles, user permissions>>.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. (Optional) Add user information in the appropriate fields.
. (Optional) Assign <<deep-dive/user-management/security-roles.adoc#ga-role-user-management-roles, user permissions>>.
```

+
NOTE: By default, a new user has the following permissions:

>      acknowledge and work with alarms and notifications and cannot access the *configure OpenNMS* administration menu.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     acknowledge and work with alarms and notifications and cannot access the *Configure OpenNMS* administration menu.
```

     +

>      Add the ROLE_ADMIN role to create a user with administrative privileges.

Reviewer: Something may have been removed or missed here.

>      Add the ROLE_ADMIN role to create a user with administrative privileges.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
     Add the `ROLE_ADMIN` role to create a user with administrative privileges.
```

. (Optional) Specify where to send messages to the user in the notification information area.
. (Optional) <<ga-user-schedule, Set a schedule>> for when a user should receive notifications.
. Click *Finish* to save changes.

[[ga-user-schedule]]
== Create user duty schedule

A duty schedule specifies the days and times a user (or group) receives notifications, on a per-week basis.
This feature lets you customize a schedule based on your team's hours of operation.

> Schedules are additive: a user could have a regular work schedule, and a second schedule for days or weeks when they are on call.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Schedules are additive: a user could have a regular work schedule, and a second schedule for days or weeks when they are on-call.
```

> If {page-component-title} needs to notify an individual user, but that user is not on duty at the time, it never sends the notification to that user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If {page-component-title} needs to notify an individual user but that user is not on duty at the time, it never sends the notification to that user.
```

Notifications sent to users in groups are different, depending on the scenario:

> * For a group on duty at time of notification – all users also on duty receive notification
> * For a group on duty, no member users on duty – notification is queued and sent to the next user who comes on duty
> * For an off-duty group – notification is never sent

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For a group on duty at time of notification – all users also on duty receive the notification.
* For a group on duty with no member users on duty – notification is queued and sent to the next user who comes on duty.
* For an off-duty group – notification is never sent.
```

To add a duty schedule for a user or group, follow these steps:

> . Log in as a user with administrative permissions.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Log in as a user with admin permissions.
```

> . Click the gear icon in the top-right.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click the gear icon at the top-right of the screen.
```

> . Choose *Configure OpenNMS > Configure Users, Groups and On-Call roles* and select *Configure Users* or *Configure Groups*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Choose menu:Configure OpenNMS[Configure Users, Groups and On-Call Roles] and select *Configure Users* or *Configure Groups*.
```

> . Choose *Configure OpenNMS > Configure Users, Groups and On-Call roles* and select *Configure Users* or *Configure Groups*.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
. Choose menu:Configure OpenNMS[Configure Users, Groups and On-Call Roles > Configure Users] or *Configure Groups*.
```

. Choose the user or group you want to modify.
. In the *Duty Schedule* area, choose the number of schedules you want to add from the list and click *Add Schedule*.
. Specify the days and times during which you want the user or group to receive notifications.

> . Click *Finish*.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
. Click *Finish*.

```

Configuration specifics for these services are outside the scope of this documentation.

WARNING: Do not delete the default `admin` and `rtc` user profiles.
The `rtc` user profile is used for the communication of the Real-Time Console on the start page to calculate the node and service availability.

[[ga-user-create]]
== Create a user

. Log in as a user with admin permissions.
. Click the gear icon at the top-right of the screen.
. Choose menu:Configure OpenNMS[Configure Users, Groups and On-Call Roles > Configure Users].
. Click *Add new user* and specify a user ID and password, confirm the password, and click *OK*.
+
WARNING: You cannot use angle brackets (<>), single (') and double quotation marks ("), or the ampersand symbol (&) in a user ID.

. (Optional) Add user information in the appropriate fields.
. (Optional) Assign <<deep-dive/user-management/security-roles.adoc#ga-role-user-management-roles, user permissions>>.
+

> NOTE: By default, a new user has the following permissions:
>      acknowledge and work with alarms and notifications.
>      They cannot access the *Configure OpenNMS* administration menu.
>      +
>      Add the `ROLE_ADMIN` role to create a user with administrative privileges.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
NOTE: By default, a new user has permissions to acknowledge and work with alarms and notifications.
They cannot access the *Configure OpenNMS* administration menu.
+
To create a user with administrative priviliges, add the `ROLE_ADMIN` role to their account. 
```

. (Optional) Specify where to send messages to the user in the notification information area.
. (Optional) <<ga-user-schedule, Set a schedule>> for when a user should receive notifications.
. Click *Finish* to save changes.

[[ga-user-schedule]]
== Create user duty schedule

> A duty schedule specifies the days and times a user or group receives notifications, on a per-week basis.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A duty schedule specifies the days and times a user or group of users receives notifications, on a per-week basis.
```

This feature lets you customize a schedule based on your team's hours of operation.
Schedules are additive: a user could have a regular work schedule, and a second schedule for days or weeks when they are on-call.

> If {page-component-title} needs to notify an individual user but that user is not on duty at the time, it never sends the notification to that user.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If {page-component-title} needs to notify an individual user, but they are not on duty at the time the notification is generated, it never sends the notification to them.
```

Notifications sent to users in groups are different, depending on the scenario:

* For a group on duty at time of notification – all users also on duty receive the notification.

> * For a group on duty with no member users on duty – notification is queued and sent to the next user who comes on duty.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* For a group on duty with no members on duty – notification is queued and sent to the next user who comes on duty.
```

* For an off-duty group – notification is never sent.

> To add a duty schedule for a user or group, follow these steps:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To add a duty schedule for a user or group of users, follow these steps:
```
